Computer Networking
The primary function of networking is to communicate between computers or devices.

Hosts are refered to a computers who are source or destination of the communication. 
There is a server who provides the info or data. Client is the one consuming or requesting data.

There could be number of intermedidate devices to facilatate this communication. They could be routers, hubs, switches.

Internet is a network of networks, not controlled,owned by anybody but rather works on cooperation and sharing. 
e.g. in a country you have o from point A to point B. Delhi to Mumbai. You can take different roads to reach from Delhi
to Mumbai. Some  roads are maintained by NHAI, Some by state governments, some by private companies, some by community etc.

So your packet starts a journey from your computer and reaches its destination on the destionation PC. Every packet can take 
different paths.

That's the reason, why its drawn as a cloud, as no one knows whats the exact nature of the network.

The cooperating thing we talked about in networks relies on protocols. 
Protocol is a set of rules for communication. Since every network is different, every computer in the network is different.
In order to communicate they adhere to some common rules, we can call the set of rules as protocols.

Everything you access is stored somewhere on some server on a LAN (probably) and its connected to the internet

A communication may involve multiple protocols eg TCP / IP, used by the internet has both protocols TCP and IP protocols
together to achieve reliable communication.

Bandwidth is the maximum capacity of the channel that facilates the communication. similar to roads which can be different types
eg metalled roads, concrete roads, mud roads. Channel can be of different types wires, wireless, fibreoptic etc

Now since the information in computers in stored and transmitted as bits. A bit is zero or 1. This information needs to 
transferred via physical medium which have limits. Bandwidth is the max amount of data that can be transferred.
Its measured in bits per second. It could kbps / Mbps / Gbps

The bits needs to be converted to signals and send across the medium. These signals might be converted several times, before 
they reach their destination eg

Electrical Signals
Optical Signals
Wireless Signals

Throughtput is actual data passed on through the medium. Well Bandwidth is the theory and throughtput is the practical. Its like 
check your car dashboard. Your car bandwidth is 200 Km / hr, but throughput is likely 100 km/ hr, that on a highway. so through
put can vary depending the time period observed, data being sent etc
Through put factors in the delays due to traffic, latency because of different intermediate devices etc.
Through put is limited to the slowest bandwidth link in the network.

Now what is Data ?
Data is the information you input. eg a form asking about your name, photo, audio file etc
This is an example of Volunteer data. 
There could be inferred data, based on your IP address, the Webpage might figure out which location you are from ?


IPv6
IPv6 uses 128 bits for address instead of 32 bits for IPv4
FE08: is the non routable address in IPv6 similar to 10, 172.16, 192.168.1 

An IPv6 address can be very large, hence to shorten it there are 2 rules
1) Leading zeros can be dropped
2) The largest sequenece Consecutive zeros can be abbreviated as ::

eg FE09:0900:ABC1:0001 can be written as FE08:900:ABC1:1
Similarly FE08:0000:0900:0000:0000:0000:AB11 as FE08:0:900::AB11

An IPv6 can auto assign its IP and seek information from the router about default gateway, DNS etc. An DHCP can be made redundant 
in IPv6 network.


URL
https://www.google.com/hello/index.htm
Protocol - Domain Name Folder Resource

SSH, DNS, DHCP, Http are another set of protocols that run on top of TCP/IP.

1. SSH (Secure Shell) allows remote access to servers and networking devices
2. Post Office Protocol (Email clients to get emails from Remote Server)
3. IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol)


Socket = IP Address + Port Number is called a socket.

Ports are logical endpoints. Since IP Address physically idenifies a host or one NIC. A host could be running multiple applications 
on the same host. Ports ensure, the data intended for an application reaches the application.

Ports are needed on both sides on client as well as server. Server usually has well known ports and client usually uses random ports
An application usually has a buffer, which stores the packets that are received from clients for processing.
